Hi Zach,

I've attached the 4 daily prep sheets used at Salata. Below are the instructions for use:

Every morning you will complete the prep sheets for cold and both hot prep (gluten and non-gluten). Follow the steps below to fill out a prep sheet.
1. Begin counting what you have on hand for each item. Count all prepped product on the sheet in the walk-in cooler then count the product in the reach-in cooler on the line.
2. Using a pencil write the number counted in the on-hand column. 
Note: Pay close attention to the date the item was prepped, if an item is expired add it to the 'Waste' column. Once prep sheets are completed, be sure to discard any product that is expired. Use the Salata Shelf-Life Chart when checking the dates of prepped product. 
3. Once the product on hand has been counted, you will figure out your 'Usage' from the previous day. 'Usage' is the product that was actually used not including waste. Using the formula: Prep-OH=Usage. Below is an example of how to find your usage:
Usage Example: Romaine Hearts
Prep-OH=Usage.                             

Note: If the restaurant's operations are from Monday-Friday, Friday's usage will be figured on Friday. Keep waste separate. 
4. When your 'OH' and your 'Usage' have been figured, reference back to the last two weeks of 'Usage' to find an average usage number. 
Remember: Check for catering, holidays, weather or any other events that may have affected sales in the past weeks you are viewing.
The charts below show the "Used" column for the last two weeks:

 
5. To find the average the formula used is (W1+W2)/2=Average. Using the charts above to find the average usage of romaine hearts for Monday would be (4+2)/2=3. 
Note: Sometimes when calculating usage you may end up with a decimal as shown in the following equation (3+4)/2=3.5. Since you can't use half, you will round up to 4. 
6. Next, you will subtract the current "OH" from this new average, and that is the number you will write in the prep box for Monday. The formula used is Average-OH=Prep. Using the information above to find out how much to prep would be 4-1=3. Therefore 3 bus tubs of romaine need to be prepped for the day. 
7. Repeat steps 1-6 to complete finding the 'Prep' for each item on the prep sheet. 
As mentioned earlier it is important to keep in mind weather, holidays, community events and catering when creating your prep sheets. Not only should you keep those things in mind when looking at past prep sheets, but you should check for the current day as well. You should check restaurant emails and Monkey Media for catering orders while filling out prep sheets. 
The purpose of a prep sheet is to not have large amounts of excess prep but to have enough to make it through the day.  
Remember: If any extra prep is made throughout the day add how much extra was prepped to the prep column.



Book time to meet with me

salata220x120.png	
Sammy Seymour
Senior Director of Operations
(832) 699-0920 
Home Office
16720 Park Row Dr | Houston, TX 77084
Facebook Twitter Instagram 
This email and any attachment(s) are confidential and may contain proprietary information generated by Salata Salad Kitchen, intended solely for the use of the individual or entity to whom they are addressed. If you have received this communication in error, please notify the sender immediately and delete the email and any attachments.

Any unauthorized use, disclosure, distribution, or copying of this information is strictly prohibited. Further information may be found in the Private Policy & Terms of Service that appear on the Salata website at salata.com.